setup.md, before:

---
title: Setup
---
### Website accounts to create
Please seek help at the start of the lesson if you have not been able to establish a website account on:
- The [Docker Hub](http://hub.docker.com). We will use the Docker Hub to download pre-built container images, and for you to upload and download container images that you create, as explained in the relevant lesson episodes.

### Files to download

Download the `docker-intro.zip` file from the main GitHub repository page: 
[Docker Introduction Github](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/docker-introduction/). 

Move the downloaded file to your Desktop and unzip it. It should unzip to a folder called `docker-intro`. 

### Software to install
Unfortunately, in many common situations installing Docker on your laptop will not straightforward if you do not have a large amount of technical experience. We have helpers on hand that have worked their way through the install process but be prepared for some troubleshooting.

Please try to install the appropriate software from the list below depending on the operating system that your laptop is running:
#### Microsoft Windows
**You must have admin rights to run docker!** Some parts of the lesson will work without running as admin but if you are unable to `Run as admin` on your machine some of this workshop might not work easily.

If you have Windows 10 Pro Edition:
 - First try to install the [Docker Desktop (Windows)](https://hub.docker.com/editions/community/docker-ce-desktop-windows), or **failing that**;
 - Install the [Docker Toolbox (Windows)](https://docs.docker.com/toolbox/toolbox_install_windows/).

If you have Windows 10 Home Edition:
 - Install the [Docker Toolbox (Windows)](https://docs.docker.com/toolbox/toolbox_install_windows/).

#### Apple macOS
Either:
 - Try this first, although it will not work with older versions of macOS. Install the [Docker Desktop (Mac)](https://hub.docker.com/editions/community/docker-ce-desktop-mac), or **failing that**:
 - Install the [Docker Toolbox (Mac)](https://docs.docker.com/toolbox/toolbox_install_mac/).

#### Linux:
There are too many varieties of Linux to give precise instructions here, but hopefully you can locate documentation for getting Docker installed on your Linux distribution. It may already be installed. Note that Docker do list a number of versions of the Docker Engine for different Linux distributions, at <https://hub.docker.com/search/?type=edition&offering=community>


### A quick tutorial on copy/pasting file contents from episodes of the lesson
Let's say you want to copy text off the lesson website and paste it into a file named `myfile` in the current working directory of a shell window. This can be achieved in many ways, depending on your laptop's operating system, but routes I have found work for me:
- macOS and Linux: you are likely to have the `nano` editor installed, which provides you with a very straightforward way to create such a file, just run `nano myfile`, then paste text into the shell window, and press <kbd>control</kbd>+<kbd>x</kbd> to exit: you will be prompted whether you want to save changes to the file, and you can type <kbd>y</kbd> to say "yes".
- Microsoft Windows running `cmd.exe` shells:
  - `del myfile` to remove `myfile` if it already existed;
  - `copy con myfile` to mean what's typed in your shell window is copied into `myfile`;
  - paste the text you want within `myfile` into the shell window;
  - type <kbd>control</kbd>+<kbd>z</kbd> and then press <kbd>enter</kbd> to finish copying content into `myfile` and return to your shell;
  - you can run the command `type myfile` to check the content of that file, as a double-check.
- Microsoft Windows running PowerShell:
  - The `cmd.exe` method probably works, but another is to paste your file contents into a so-called "here-string" between `@'` and `'@` as in this example that follows (the ">" is the prompt indicator):

        > @'
        Some hypothetical
        file content that is

        split over many

        lines.
        '@ | Set-Content myfile -encoding ascii

{% include links.md %}

{% comment %}
<!--  LocalWords:  myfile kbd links.md md endcomment
-->
{% endcomment %}

Commit message:

Link to newer Docker docs; Change W10 Home plan
Link to the detailed installation instructions provided on Docker's website.
Newer Windows 10 Home WSL Docker Desktop installation route means these users should not automatically assume to need to use Docker Toolbox.

setup.md, after:

---
title: Setup
---
### Website accounts to create
Please seek help at the start of the lesson if you have not been able to establish a website account on:
- The [Docker Hub](http://hub.docker.com). We will use the Docker Hub to download pre-built container images, and for you to upload and download container images that you create, as explained in the relevant lesson episodes.

### Files to download

Download the `docker-intro.zip` file from the main GitHub repository page: 
[Docker Introduction Github](https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/docker-introduction/). 

Move the downloaded file to your Desktop and unzip it. It should unzip to a folder called `docker-intro`. 

### Software to install
Unfortunately, in many common situations installing Docker on your laptop will not straightforward if you do not have a large amount of technical experience. 
Workshops try to have helpers on hand that have worked their way through the install process but be prepared for some troubleshooting.

You are likely to need to have administrator rights on the computer in order to install the Docker software. If you are using a computer managed by your organisation and do not have administrator rights, you *may* be able to get your organisation's IT staff to install Docker for you. Alternatively your IT support staff *may* be able to give you remote access to a server that can run Docker commands.

Please try to install the appropriate software from the list below depending on the operating system that your computer is running. Do let the workshop organisers know as early as possible if you are unable to install Docker using these instructions, as there may be other options available.

#### Microsoft Windows

Ideally, you will be able to install the Docker Desktop software, following the [Docker website's documentation](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/install/). Note that the instructions for installing Docker Desktop on Windows 10 Home Edition are different from other versions of Windows 10.
Or **failing that** you should try to install the [Docker Toolbox (Windows)](https://docs.docker.com/toolbox/toolbox_install_windows/) software.

#### Apple macOS

Ideally, you will be able to install the Docker Desktop software, following the [Docker website's documentation](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install/).
Or **failing that** you should try to install the [Docker Toolbox (Mac)](https://docs.docker.com/toolbox/toolbox_install_mac/) software.

#### Linux:
There are too many varieties of Linux to give precise instructions here, but hopefully you can locate documentation for getting Docker installed on your Linux distribution. It may already be installed. Note that Docker do list a number of versions of the Docker Engine for different Linux distributions, at <https://hub.docker.com/search/?type=edition&offering=community>


### A quick tutorial on copy/pasting file contents from episodes of the lesson
Let's say you want to copy text off the lesson website and paste it into a file named `myfile` in the current working directory of a shell window. This can be achieved in many ways, depending on your laptop's operating system, but routes I have found work for me:
- macOS and Linux: you are likely to have the `nano` editor installed, which provides you with a very straightforward way to create such a file, just run `nano myfile`, then paste text into the shell window, and press <kbd>control</kbd>+<kbd>x</kbd> to exit: you will be prompted whether you want to save changes to the file, and you can type <kbd>y</kbd> to say "yes".
- Microsoft Windows running `cmd.exe` shells:
  - `del myfile` to remove `myfile` if it already existed;
  - `copy con myfile` to mean what's typed in your shell window is copied into `myfile`;
  - paste the text you want within `myfile` into the shell window;
  - type <kbd>control</kbd>+<kbd>z</kbd> and then press <kbd>enter</kbd> to finish copying content into `myfile` and return to your shell;
  - you can run the command `type myfile` to check the content of that file, as a double-check.
- Microsoft Windows running PowerShell:
  - The `cmd.exe` method probably works, but another is to paste your file contents into a so-called "here-string" between `@'` and `'@` as in this example that follows (the ">" is the prompt indicator):

        > @'
        Some hypothetical
        file content that is

        split over many

        lines.
        '@ | Set-Content myfile -encoding ascii

{% include links.md %}

{% comment %}
<!--  LocalWords:  myfile kbd links.md md endcomment
-->
{% endcomment %}
